Support for two or more authentications for a single request (#42935)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/security-authentication-mechanisms.adoc

If different sources provide the user credentials, you can combine authentication mechanisms.
For example, you can combine the built-in Basic and the Quarkus `quarkus-oidc` Bearer token authentication mechanisms.

The authentication process completes as soon as the first `SecurityIdentity` is produced by one of the authentication mechanisms.

In some cases it can be required that all registered authentication mechanisms create their `SecurityIdentity`.
It can be required when the credentials such as tokens have to be passed over <<mutual-tls>>,
for example, when users are authenticating via `Virtual Private Network`, or when the current token has to be bound
to the client certificate for the token verification to succeed, guaranteeing that the token was issued exactly
to the same client which is currently passing this token to Quarkus alongside its client certificate.

In Quarkus such authentication is called `inclusive` and you can enable it like this:

[source,properties]
----
quarkus.http.auth.inclusive=true
----

If the authentication is inclusive then `SecurityIdentity` created by the first authentication mechanism can be

> injected into the application code. Typically it will be created by the <<mutual-tls>> authentication mechanism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
injected into the application code. For example, if both <<mutual-tls>> and basic authentication mechanisms authentications are required, the <<mutual-tls>> authentication mechanism will create `SecurityIdentity` first.
```
